README.md, before:

# rhel_cve_vulnerability_scan_baseline

A minimal baseline to scan for all packages that have known CVE (cve.mitre.org) patchable vulnerabilities on your red hat system.

# Description

This [InSpec](https://github.com/chef/inspec) compliance profile uses `yum updateinfo list cves` command to list all packages that have known cve.mitre.org patchable vulnerabilities.

## Requirements

- [InSpec](http://inspec.io/) at least version 2.*

## Get started

### Installing InSpec 

If needed - install inspec on your 'runner' system - i.e. your orchestration server, your workstation, your bastion host or your instance you wish to evlauate.

  a. InSpec has prepackaged installers for all platforms here: https://www.inspec.io/downloads, or 
  
  b. If you already have a ruby environment (`2.4.x`) installed on your 'runner' system - you can just do a simple `gem install inspec`, or 
  
  c. If running in AWS, you can use the AWS SSM suite to run InSpec on your RHEL assets - see the InSpec + SSM documation here: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/mt/using-aws-systems-manager-to-run-compliance-scans-using-inspec-by-chef/
  
### Get the RHEL CVE Vulunrability Scan Profile

You will need to download the InSpec Profile to your `runner` system. You can do this via `git` or the GitHub Web interface, etc.

  a. `git clone https://github.cms.gov/ispg-review/rhel_cve_vulnerability_scan_baseline`, or 
  
  b. Save a Zip or tar.gz copy of the master branch from the `Clone or Download` button of this project

### Setting up dependencies in your Ruby and InSpec Environments

The profile uses Bundler to manage needed dependencies - so you will need to installed the needed gems via bundler before you run the profile. Change directories to your your cloned inspec profile then do a `bundle install`. 

  a. `cd rhel_cve_vulnerability_scan_baseline` 
  
  b. `bundle install`

## Usage

InSpec makes it easy to run your tests wherever you need. More options listed here: [InSpec cli](http://inspec.io/docs/reference/cli/)

```
# Clone Inspec Profile
$ git clone https://github.cms.gov/ispg-review/rhel_cve_vulnerability_scan_baseline

# Install Gems
$ bundle install

# To run profile locally with cli & json output 
$ inspec exec /path/to/profile --attrs=attributes.yml --reporter cli json:cve_scan-results.json
```
For more usage options, see https://github.com/chef/inspec/blob/master/README.md 


## Contributors + Kudos

- Aaron Lippold [aaronlippold](https://github.com/aaronlippold)
- Rony Xavier [rx294](https://github.com/rx294)
- Eugene Aronne [ejaronne](https://github.com/ejaronne)

### License 

* This project is dual-licensed under the terms of the Apache license 2.0 (apache-2.0)

Commit message:

Update Control Logic and Readme (#1)
Updated control logic to correctly report if `yum updateinfo list cves` command fails

Signed-off-by: Rony Xavier <rx294@nyu.edu>

README.md, after:

# rhel_cve_vulnerability_scan_baseline

A minimal baseline to scan for all packages that have known CVE (cve.mitre.org) patchable vulnerabilities on your red hat system.

# Description

This [InSpec](https://github.com/chef/inspec) compliance profile uses `yum updateinfo list cves` command to list all packages that have known cve.mitre.org patchable vulnerabilities.

## Requirements

- [InSpec](http://inspec.io/) at least version 2.*
- `yum` must be configured correctly on the target.

## Get started

### Installing InSpec 

If needed - install inspec on your 'runner' system - i.e. your orchestration server, your workstation, your bastion host or your instance you wish to evlauate.

  a. InSpec has prepackaged installers for all platforms here: https://www.inspec.io/downloads, or 
  
  b. If you already have a ruby environment (`2.4.x`) installed on your 'runner' system - you can just do a simple `gem install inspec`, or 
  
  c. If running in AWS, you can use the AWS SSM suite to run InSpec on your RHEL assets - see the InSpec + SSM documation here: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/mt/using-aws-systems-manager-to-run-compliance-scans-using-inspec-by-chef/
  
### Get the RHEL CVE Vulunrability Scan Profile

You will need to download the InSpec Profile to your `runner` system. You can do this via `git` or the GitHub Web interface, etc.

  a. `git clone https://github.cms.gov/ispg-review/rhel_cve_vulnerability_scan_baseline`, or 
  
  b. Save a Zip or tar.gz copy of the master branch from the `Clone or Download` button of this project

### Setting up dependencies in your Ruby and InSpec Environments

The profile uses Bundler to manage needed dependencies - so you will need to installed the needed gems via bundler before you run the profile. Change directories to your your cloned inspec profile then do a `bundle install`. 

  a. `cd rhel_cve_vulnerability_scan_baseline` 
  
  b. `bundle install`

## Usage

InSpec makes it easy to run your tests wherever you need. More options listed here: [InSpec cli](http://inspec.io/docs/reference/cli/)

```
# Clone Inspec Profile
$ git clone https://github.cms.gov/ispg-review/rhel_cve_vulnerability_scan_baseline

# Install Gems
$ bundle install

# To run profile locally with cli & json output 
$ inspec exec /path/to/profile --attrs=attributes.yml --reporter cli json:cve_scan-results.json --sudo

# To run profile on a remote target with cli & json output 
$ inspec exec /path/to/profile -t ssh://username@target-ip -i path/to/ssh-cert --reporter cli json:cve_scan-results.json --sudo

```
For more usage options, see https://github.com/chef/inspec/blob/master/README.md 


## Contributors + Kudos

- Aaron Lippold [aaronlippold](https://github.com/aaronlippold)
- Rony Xavier [rx294](https://github.com/rx294)
- Eugene Aronne [ejaronne](https://github.com/ejaronne)

### License 

* This project is dual-licensed under the terms of the Apache license 2.0 (apache-2.0)
